.Dd November 6, 2021
.Dt STRINGS 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm strings
.Nd return the strings of printable characters in files Python library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Em import strings
.Pp
.Ft List
.Fo strings.strings
.Fa "String filename"
.Fa "Character encoding"
.Fa "Integer minimum_length"
.Fa "Boolean include_backspaces"
.Fa "Boolean include_whitespaces"
.Fa "String string_termination"
.Fa "Boolean scan_entire_file"
.Fa "String target"
.Fa "Integer file_offset"
.Fa "Integer file_length"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn strings
function returns a list of (offset, printable strings) tuples contained in the
.Fa filename
file or the standard input stream if empty.
.Pp
All the other parameters also have default values and thus are optional.
.Pp
The
.Fa encoding
parameter sets the character encoding to be used while searching for strings.
Valid values are:
.Bl -tag -width indent -compact
.It Ar s
for single 7-bit-byte characters (ASCII, ISO 8859). The default value.
.It Ar S
for single 8-bit-byte characters.
.It Ar l
for 16-bit little-endian.
.It Ar b
for 16-bit big-endian.
.It Ar L
for 32-bit little-endian.
.It Ar B
for 32-bit big-endian.
.It Ar u
for 1 to 4 bytes UTF-8 characters.
.El
.Pp
The
.Fa minimum_length
parameter defines the minimum number of contiguous characters in strings.
The default value is 4.
.Pp
If True, the
.Fa include_backspaces
parameter allows backspace characters in strings.
The default value is False.
.Pp
If True, the
.Fa include_whitespaces
parameter allows backspace, new line, vertical tab, form feed and carriage return characters in strings.
The default value is False.
.Pp
The
.Fa string_termination
parameter expects a comma separated string of the integer values of allowed string ending characters.
The default value is a blank string, which means any unprintable character.
It is common to use "0:10" to allow only null or new line characters, which is often relevant for binary and text files respectively.
.Pp
If True, the
.Fa scan_entire_file
parameter sets a full file scan.
The default value is False, though without any executable file formats supported (yet) it also falls back to a full scan.
.Pp
The
.Fa target
parameter allows the selection of a specific executable file format (potentially different from the system's default), though none are currently supported.
It must be set to "part" if you want to use the
.Fa file_offset
or
.Fa file_length
parameters.
The default value is a blank string.
.Pp
The
.Fa file_offset
parameter defines the number of bytes to skip from the beginning of the file to scan.
The default value is 0.
.Pp
The
.Fa file_length
parameter defines the number of bytes to read from the
.Fa file_offset
of the file to scan.
The default value is all.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev STRINGS_DEBUG
environment variable can be set to any value to enable debug mode.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr strings 1 ,
.Xr what 1 ,
.Xr ident 1
.Sh STANDARDS
The
.Lb strings
tries to follow the PEP 8 style guide for Python code.
.Sh HISTORY
This library was made for the
.Lk https://github.com/HubTou/PNU [PNU project]
.Sh LICENSE
It is available under the 3-clause BSD license.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Hubert Tournier
.Sh CAVEATS
This library does not (yet) support any executable format (ELF, a.out, COFF, etc.).
All executable files are entirely scanned regardless of the
.Fa target
parameter, with the exception of the "part" value.
